README.md, before:

# Workleap.OpenApi.MSBuild

Validates at build time that the OpenAPI specification files extracted from the ASP.NET Core Web API being built conform to Workleap API guidelines.

Depending if the user chose the ValidateContract or GenerateContract development mode this MSBuild task will:

- Install tools: [OasDiff](https://github.com/Tufin/oasdiff), [Spectral](https://github.com/stoplightio/spectral), [SwashbuckleCLI](https://github.com/domaindrivendev/Swashbuckle.AspNetCore?tab=readme-ov-file#swashbuckleaspnetcorecli)
- Generate the OpenAPI specification file from the associated Web API
- Validate OpenAPI spec with [Workleap Spectral rules](https://github.com/workleap/wl-api-guidelines)
- Compare the given OpenAPI specification file with the generated one

## How it works

[Official Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/msbuild/tutorial-custom-task-code-generation?view=vs-2022#include-msbuild-properties-and-targets-in-a-package)

For the TLDR version: 

- The entry point is `ValidateOpenApiTask.ExecuteAsync()` and will be executed after the referencing project is built. This is defined in `./src/Workleap.OpenApi.MSBuild/msbuild/tools/Workleap.OpenApi.MSBuild.targets` as a `UsingTask.TaskName`
- The default value are defined in the property group on the target `ValidateOpenApi` in this file `./src/Workleap.OpenApi.MSBuild/msbuild/tools/Workleap.OpenApi.MSBuild.targets`
- Users can select whether to validate the API with frontend or backend ruleset depending on how they configure the `OpenApiServiceProfile` MSBuild property ([`backend` (default)](https://github.com/workleap/wl-api-guidelines/blob/main/.spectral.backend.yaml) or [`frontend`](https://github.com/workleap/wl-api-guidelines/blob/main/.spectral.frontend.yaml)).

## How to test locally

### How debug the project

Since it's a MSBuild task named `ValidateOpenApi` you can run it this command: `msbuild /t:ValidateOpenApi`. `./src/WebApiDebugger` already have some preconfigured in `launchSettings.json` that you can run in debug.

Note: Before executing this task it will build the project.

Warming: validate your IDE is in Configuration:Debug otherwise the execution will not be done on the most recent code.

Commit message:

Fixing .Net 10 support (#161)
* Fixing .Net 10 support

* Allowing consumers to overwrite the Swashbuckle.AspNetCore package as they please

* Fixing default version that was wrongfully changed

* Fixing failing tests by updating the OpenApi spec

* Updating readme

README.md, after:

# Workleap.OpenApi.MSBuild

Validates at build time that the OpenAPI specification files extracted from the ASP.NET Core Web API being built conform to Workleap API guidelines.

Depending if the user chose the ValidateContract or GenerateContract development mode this MSBuild task will:

- Install tools: [OasDiff](https://github.com/Tufin/oasdiff), [Spectral](https://github.com/stoplightio/spectral), [SwashbuckleCLI](https://github.com/domaindrivendev/Swashbuckle.AspNetCore?tab=readme-ov-file#swashbuckleaspnetcorecli)
- Generate the OpenAPI specification file from the associated Web API
- Validate OpenAPI spec with [Workleap Spectral rules](https://github.com/workleap/wl-api-guidelines)
- Compare the given OpenAPI specification file with the generated one

## How it works

[Official Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/msbuild/tutorial-custom-task-code-generation?view=vs-2022#include-msbuild-properties-and-targets-in-a-package)

For the TLDR version: 

- The entry point is `ValidateOpenApiTask.ExecuteAsync()` and will be executed after the referencing project is built. This is defined in `./src/Workleap.OpenApi.MSBuild/msbuild/tools/Workleap.OpenApi.MSBuild.targets` as a `UsingTask.TaskName`
- The default value are defined in the property group on the target `ValidateOpenApi` in this file `./src/Workleap.OpenApi.MSBuild/msbuild/tools/Workleap.OpenApi.MSBuild.targets`
- Users can select whether to validate the API with frontend or backend ruleset depending on how they configure the `OpenApiServiceProfile` MSBuild property ([`backend` (default)](https://github.com/workleap/wl-api-guidelines/blob/main/.spectral.backend.yaml) or [`frontend`](https://github.com/workleap/wl-api-guidelines/blob/main/.spectral.frontend.yaml)).

## Which Swashbuckle.AspNetCore.Cli version is used?
The MSBuild task uses `Swashbuckle.AspNetCore.Cli` to generate OpenAPI specifications. The version is resolved in the following order (highest to lowest priority):

1. **Explicit configuration** - Set via the `OpenApiSwaggerVersion` MSBuild property:
```xml
   <PropertyGroup>
     <OpenApiSwaggerVersion>10.3.0</OpenApiSwaggerVersion>
   </PropertyGroup>
```
2. Project dependency - If your project references Swashbuckle.AspNetCore (via *.csproj or Directory.Packages.props), the same version is used.
3. Default version - Falls back to version 10.1.0 if no version is found.

## How to test locally

### How debug the project

Since it's a MSBuild task named `ValidateOpenApi` you can run it this command: `msbuild /t:ValidateOpenApi`. `./src/WebApiDebugger` already have some preconfigured in `launchSettings.json` that you can run in debug.

Note: Before executing this task it will build the project.

Warming: validate your IDE is in Configuration:Debug otherwise the execution will not be done on the most recent code.
